S: As artificial inteligence gets more advanced, a larger number of jobs will be eliminated than created.

The topic of a universal basic income has become trendy among various elite tech circles in the Bay Area. Many of those individuals argue that artificial inteligence will eliminate most human labor with robots, hence the need. I argue that we will need a universal basic income not because of the elimination of jobs rather we need it in order to allow for the generation of new jobs that replace them. With the recent advancements in artificial inteligence, we are experiencing a new phase of disruption in the labor market. Although there may be many repititive jobs that will be eliminated, jobs that require judgement, creativity and ingenuity will continue to thrive and increase in number. 

True, the advances in Artificial Inteligence are so profound that they have the potential to eliminate all current jobs. However, this is unlikely as situations in which we humans decide that a computer should not fill that role. The Deparment of Defense has, controversially, begun to employ artificial intelligence in the fight against terrorism. They are currently using the technology to identify potential targets with their drones. However, as a policy they have not allowed the computer to make the final decision. This is a clear example in which human judgement and responsibility is required.

Many argue that the majority of industrial jobs are repititive and likely to be automated away. However take the example of, the car company, Tesla. They attempted to auomate the majority of their manufacturing process but were unable to as technology was not there yet. "Human labor is significantly under valued." is something the CEO Elon Musk remarked, when recalling their reversal in their automation strategy. Today, they are using artificial intelligence to assist their employees. It is far more likely that as the technology gets better, the cost of the cars will lower and humans will increase their output rather than be wholesale replaced.

If all taxi driving and trucking jobs are eliminated in the near future by self driving cars. We are likely to see a dramatic drop in the cost of shipping as the most common well paying job, in the United States, today, is a truck driver. This will then lead to a large number of new opportunities for delivering goods that were previously not cost effective or a dramatic drop in existing product prices. This cascade of effects would certainly lead to new and novel jobs to be created.

The doom and gloom situation that is painted by artificial inteligence maximalists may come true. We may have a significantly larger number of jobs eliminated than created. However if we do things to blunt their impact on those caught in the middle and prepare for them next wave of opportunities the job number differential may be significantly less than we expect.

